STAMOS, Alex Security in Post-Snowden World, CSD, Jan 8 2014

he is from Artemis  (part of NCC Group);
has been in security for  a long time.

Why should I care?

Internet services is one of the things the US still exports...

he is part of iSECpartners  part of NCCGroup.


maintaining competiveness means maintaining trust (if you're selling srvices abroad  eg
Cisco  revs dropped 20% after Snowden revelations!

NSAs capabilites are good marker for other nation-state actors...

last  glimpse was Chinese attack (on US);  Aurora attacks...  0-day (oh-day) means  malware  2009  (now called  APT advanced persistent threat)  now)

such capabilities help predict non-nation threats  (trickle down theory!)

but now  these exploits are available on the market   (any E European gangster in a tracksuit can buy it)


NTLM cracking//   pswd  based  breaking on  ?  Msft  networks   /(eg thru windows update...

Flame  (successor to Stuxnet)...

even if  u don't care, ur customers do...


problems with Snowden Disclosuers

hard to trust someof his assertions...

his claim of "direct access to Google servers" is not supported by facts,   altho may have had equivalent access ...

we will only use docs published by media (in this lecture)

he lists  6 ways of  hacking into  Angela Merkel cell phone  (fake base station,  many many others)

media filter  (media does not genl have tech details... just political stuff)

*******************
Revelation  NSA   PRISM program...

PRISM Collection Dataflow...


you would get request from FBI  DITU  sent to a  data provider  (eg Yahoo etc)

PRISM:  alllows  access to hard drives of  providers...

DNI selectors...  fuzzy matches on names, phones   (cuz they have way too much data to find relevant data)

PRISM... prob automated...  no human in loop  (but there should be)
uses a secure portal for an upload...

eg ISP  may get  a request from a German judge in German for info  where  a child has been kidnapped  (but how do you authenticate that)

PRISM  what to do abt it?

think long and hard abt acquiescing to requests that are not legally compelled by govt.

must think long and hard abt how u will respond to FISA/ FAA Sec 702 requests...

FAA  Sec 702  (eg like the Verizon  events);

Lavabit... was forced  to go out of biz to avoid complying with requests...

regulatory arbitrage...   some American companies  may  put servers overseas to avoid  Amer. regs...

divorce attorneys are the worst, he jokes...

Revelation NSA  sniffs the major POPs

one such is XKey Store.

Upstream is another  FAA 702 operation  (besides  PRISM)


undersea cables...   huge  amt of flow thru USA  (eg  cannot get a packet from S America to Europe without going thru USA)

he did a lot of trace-routes  when he was in Buenos Aires... interesting...

(he was at LoudCloud)    cables are all run along  railroad  tracks  (from the RR, you buy a 6 inch by 3000 miles easement)
otherwise impossible to get thousands of  easements...
read  telegeography  to get this info...

Cable Sniffing...

guy called  EFF  to report  racks and racks of  NSA installed eqpt in the central office of ATT) gathering info for  NSA.
(NSA prob made a deal with the companies to install this)

or can use  physical or software  taps  (eg for  cisco or juniper routers)

above was in an ATT  office  (central office)...

sniffing  ACP....

XKEYSCORE database...

NSA is prob using optical taps...  get all phone calls,  MPLS

this prevents leakage of targeting data to carriers (so you catch suspects unaware)...
allows  NSA to pick and choose what they want...

a lot of overseas cables are collabs  (eg  NTT and ATT...  NTT may not be aware of tap)

but NSA can't record everything...  (first get rid of Netflix and YouTube  and that gets rid of  60% of traffic)

they get  email;  SMS; DNS
DNS  requests  are easy for worried company to monitor...

sniffing - what to do?

move all external sites to HTTPS  (and away from HTTP)
but v v expensive to do  (and throws away lots of power to do https security)

but HTTP 2.0 will come out in few years to replace  http...
SPDY  (speedy also helps)  (anoter protocol)

do not use  POTS voice calls for critical  conversations  (nothing u can do to secure it)
5-6  companies handle alomost  all conference calls...
pots  = plain old telephone service  (landlines)

use VOIP  cuz can be encrypted  .....


think hard abt DNS  namespace leakage
DNS logs are easily compressed and easy to search...

most ISPs  buy bandwidth to  implement their WAN...
better to route  via private link  (eg via ATT)  rather than thru internet (which is horribly slow)...

if there is  bad qual of service, then they just  throw away the youtube/ ntflix traffic  first to improve it)

dedicated lambda for WAN links....

SWIFT  (financial network, HQ in switzerland... extensive  WAN... big finance)

GFE =google front end  (everything is first routed to that) then GFE parcels out tasks....
oh u want to search or do email...  then  gets routed  inside  google cloud.

traffic is in clear within the google cloud.

NSA..." mainly deals with foreign nationals... eg 51%"
5 Is  (eye s) are the  english spk countries.. canada,  us, brit, + austral + new zea)

see Brandon Downey  post  in  washingtonpost.com  on snowden docs...  oct 30 2013...

since 2009  NSA, FBI invovled to help "protect “”  our companies...

analysis  WAN links  taps are prob at offshore landing sites
so  u “might” be safe if links are only domestic.


What to do?
encrypt all internal connections:  2 options:

wire speed VPN...  to encrypt in real time)
but does not fail gracefull and expensive...

but  then competely opque to carriers so carriers cannot do optimization to help with Qual of Service they just look like bare packets...

could do private key stuff  (push keys out to your own servers)

wire speed VPN.. prob fine if you are a bank or trad biz...

if google// prob do latter solution.


Revelation:  NSA  can active MITM  targeted indivudals

one goal was to seed malware on machines used at Belgacom
impersonated slashdot and linkedIn...

could hack routers  (this way can spy on Europ Union)


inser  “o-day  “ malware...

another way to hack:  quantum targeting...   try to BEAT the legitimate packets..
do TCP  sequence  number...

this is man in the middle

CNNIC  chinese national  NIC...

what are they inserting... poss javascript...

he got this from a slide deck (maybe from NSA);

how are they not causing a TCP reset?
(prob  not doing this anymore)

best  protection is using HTTPS everywhere.

Revelation:  NSA likes to unwrap  TLS

likes to get private keys...

LONGHAUL  does attack orchestration...

TLS  attacks:  no indication of magic abilities to attack TLS

factoring RSA 1024...
best to hack once,  unwrap TLS many times...


what to do?

consider  HSM = hardware security modules to store front-end keys...


diffey -hellman exchange..
use perfect forward secrecy on all TLS
we recommend  ECDHE

certificate  authority is totally broken   (look at your certifs, prob some from Russia, Turkey)

get yourself on the Chrome  HSTS list  see
chrome//HSTS...


RSA is dragging their feet on  transparency of certificates...

Revelation: NIST backdoored a standard!

deterministic....

algo was ALWAYS fishy!  its slow, unneces...

Conclusions:  what we are not saying
NIST intentionally  put a back door in their PRNG (psuedo random numb gen)
only has to solve one instance of elliptic curve discrete log problem...


see joseph mein story in SF dec 20 2013...

secret contract tired NSA and secuity industry pioneer.


RSA had a contract for 10M  with  NSA to do this!  (probably)


people  prev trusted  US govt... not anymore!

may need to substitute ENISA  (euorpen version of NIST)
huge PITA (pain in butt) for OEMS...

this  might give a hint of the NSA’s requirement for backdoors...

this is a true backdoor...

only exploitable by creator of magic numbers...


hints to strength of EC DLP = elliptic curve DLP problem  dlp  discrete log problem... (it is strong: lots of math behind it)


what to do?

build in crypto agility....or look to  chrome dev  (already supports this)
get ready for ENISA standards...


here is request for NIST budget...  they declare they want to put backdoors in commercial systems...


DeityBounce... leaked by Der Spiegel...  from Jason ?...
(“implants”   )

reflash bios...     can  intercept router en route to UPS/ FedEx  get the router and modify it then wrap it up again and put it on the doorstep...


insert backdoor in every product that is shipped...
or put in rootkits...
huge focus on physical access...  juniper, hp...

most backdoors might be indist from real bugs

look for timing leakage
bad PRNGS.. pseudo random number genrators...

obscure memory mgmt bugs...

easy thing:  do NOT buy US products...

buy products from channel...   buy your computer from Best Buy..
supply chain security... big vulnerability!!!!
(he holds up his apple laptop....)

thunderbolt cable tslef has a full ARM core in it!!! (that can be hacked)

REvelation:  NSA likes to spy on foeign leaders
nsa likes to attack TOR.

beam  in microwave  to energize  an  RF toy  delivered by singing school kids to  ambassafors
can do similar thing  tiwht  VGA cable to xmt  contents of screen.

what we have NOT seen

no quantum comptuers
no magic crypto  breakthrus
little discuss of 0-day capabilities...

genl advice...

add NSA to ur list of threat actors..
makes threat modeling more fun!

lobby the US gov t...  (all major tech companeis are lobbying)

ethics slide...  are we like docs or lawyers... with special responsiblites...

he gave a talk on this at Defcom... see that...

product on  University Avenue... used to spy on Americans (Palo Alto)
(Palentir?)

obviously other govts are doing the same... where are their Snowdens?

alex@artemis.net ....

aud comment:  compromise doping layer...  eg to compromise / shorten length of  PRNG,,,

every country has source code for every program...  audience comment (just sue the company for patent infrigement to see the source code!)


his company got a laptop from  a company ceo that went to china... it was doing bizarre stuff and we could NOT discover the Chinese hacks that the chinese put into it  (it was not discoverable)...

some companies just  take throw away computers when they go to  Chine  (then donate to kindergartens)... if u go to China, bring a cheap Chromebook, then dump it!

Answer to my question... it’s a tradeoff...  a lot of people die in car accidents and we still  let people drive...

also  he and others Q whether Diane F. is a liberal.   
trade offs... may be fine for foreign nationals.  He was in favor of Stuxnet  (better a comp virus then  killing several hundred people and maybe not succeeding in disabling centrifuges)
